Chapter Two: Basic body position
As with everything in violin technique, every movement must be executed as naturally as possible.
When holding the violin, one must try to achieve good balance while standing on both legs.
The performer should distribute his body weight on both legs and work to keep his balance.
While standing, the performer should hold the violin in a relaxed way, supporting the neck of the instrument with his left hand.  His chest will expand.
The left shoulder should move forward slightly.
The violin is placed in front of the face, resting on the left collarbone.
The instrument's fingerboard should point in the direction of the chin.
The weight of the player's head, along with the pressure of the chin on the chin rest from above and the slight raising of the left shoulder, make it possible to keep the instrument in the position of a platform or shelf.
Fundamental to achieving correct position of the violin on the shoulder is the use of a shoulder rest.  This should be of a size the violinist finds comfortable.
The left hand does not support the instrument; it remains free and is placed above the neck of the violin.
The violin should not be placed too high or too far back, because this would force the right arm, which holds the bow,  to stretch too much to reach the correct position.
The violin should not be placed too far forward or too low, because the bow will slide toward the fingerboard.
The violin should be in front and centered with respect to the head and chin.
The performer's face should not rest on the violin.
This is not aesthetically pleasing, and it makes it difficult to hear the sound which the instrument projects clearly.
With his face lifted, the player can hear clearly with both ears.
The face should be lifted, and together with the chin and the shoulder, should provide the pressure needed to hold the instrument in place.
The performer should feel comfortable in the correct position, which students of the violin should assume from day one of learning to play. 
The performer's back should be straight.
When the performer plays sitting down, he should maintain the same balance and body position as when he is standing.
The violinist should not lean back in his chair.
He should sit on the edge of the chair, and sit up straight.
The left hand:
All movements of the arm, wrist, hand and fingers should be made in the most relaxed way possible.
For proper placement of the left hand on the violin, the left arm must be relaxed.
It should be raised toward the neck of the instrument freely, without any tension.
The first and second joints of the thumb should make contact with the neck of the violin.
The palm of the hand should rotate inward toward the instrument's neck to bring the fingers close to the violin's fingerboard.
The player should not open his hand or remove it from the fingerboard.
Having the fingers ready and near the fingerboard is essential to accurate tuning.
Bending the wrist too far outward or inward makes for an unnatural position.
The hand should follow the natural position of the violinist's arm.
The fingers are placed on the strings, with the centers of the fingertips making contact with them.
Pressing on the string with the sides of the fingertips or with the fingernails prevents the left hand from working correctly.
When placed on the string, the finger should press on it using the center of the fingertip.
The fingers are numbered one through four, starting with the index finger.
The index finger is the first finger.
The middle finger is the second finger.
The ring finger is the third finger.
The little finger is the fourth finger.
It should not become stiff. 
Although the fourth finger does not have much strength, it should be kept rounded.
The fingers should point along the length of the fingerboard to make use of their widest, fleshiest parts.  This permits production of a wider vibrato and a more rounded sound.
The elbow plays an important role in correct adjustment of the position of the left arm.
For the low strings, the elbow should move forward to allow the player to reach the notes comfortably, especially in high positions.
Basic left hand position:
The fingers are placed on the strings according to the tonality in which one plays.
The basic distance in between the first and fourth finger is that of a perfect fourth interval when one plays on the same string.
The basic distance in between the first and fourth finger is that of an exact octave when one plays on two adjacent strings.
It is fundamental to start the student learning the distances of tones and semitones; as a base, one should take the notion of the hand structure formed in this way. The position in between each finger and its neighbor can vary. The different possibilities of the combinations are:
Semitone distance in between the 2nd and 3rd finger, tone distance in between the 1st and 2nd, and 3rd and 4th, which is the most natural for the player’s hand.
Semitone distance in between the 1st and 2nd finger, tone distance in between the 2nd and 3rd, and 3rd and 4th.
Semitone distance in between the 3rd and 4th finger, tone distance in between the 1st and 2nd, and 2nd and 3rd.
Tone distance in between all the fingers.
The normal fingering of the violinist’s technique lies in the use of this key structure.
The right hand: the bow
The right hand sustains the bow and moves it on top of the strings, stroking them.
Stroking the strings is the basic way to produce sound on the violin.
Bow technique has a greater importance that what is usually attributed to it.
From the beginning and throughout all learning it is necessary to insist on the correct position of the fingers, hand, wrist, forearm, arm and shoulder.
The bow is comprised of the stick, that is imaginarily divided into the frog, middle and tip.
The complete bow movement from the frog to the tip or vice versa is known as bow stroke.
Bowings are defined according to the bow direction, the region of the bow in which the bowings begin and the number of notes that are included in one single bow movement. 
Upon picking up the bow, the position should be as natural, comfortable and relaxed as possible.
The middle finger and thumb without the bow, create a circle in a relaxed manner, taking the tip of the thumb to the second joint.
Half of the thumb makes contact with the ferrule and half with the stick.
The middle finger stays at the same level as the thumb and makes contact at the second joint with the stick’s leather lining.
The index finger makes contact with the metal bow wrapping, the place where the best leverage is exercised.
The ring finger is placed naturally.
The fingertip of the little finger is placed on the stick in a way in which allows it to bend and stretch freely and as such, balance the weight of the bow.
The fingers shouldn't have different distances in between one another.
Once placed on the bow, the fingers should maintain in between them a relative equidistance so that they may be curved in a natural and relaxed form.
The thumb should bend to oblige the knuckles of the other fingers to lower and form the correct circle of a good position.
The circle in between the thumb and middle finger form the core of the bow grip.
The hand and the fingers should function as springs that cushion and distribute the weight of the arm, the bow and the hand itself. The good functioning of this system will guarantee technical bow skill and the capacity to control variety in the dynamics.
To guarantee a good finger and hand position on the bow, the following exercise is recommended:
Once the bow is held correctly, the frog must be taken to the same height as that of the abdomen.
The bow screw and the edge of the hand make contact with the abdomen.
This ideal position is maintained upon turned the hand and preparing it for execution.
Once the position is fixed and assimilated in a natural manner, one will proceed to place the bow on the strings.
